First of all, the mind of the practitioner, Hoan Quan,
is very pleased and praises the esteemed fellow practitioners.
This is also a joy for the mind of the
practitioner. When seeing a group that is
not solemn,
Hoan Quan also draws
many lessons from experience. That is, we
wish to be this way, this way, that way,
but when we practice the Dharma,
we encounter things that
we previously felt were unsuitable or not
good enough. When we practice, we learn from those experiences.
So,
in life, when people
encounter bad things, they become bad too, but there are also
people who, when they encounter bad things,
become good because they learn from experience. Everyone has a self, so to
stand up, to learn from
experience.
But there is also a type of being in life who
sees others fall and doesn't fall,
sees others go and just stays there and
doesn't go. Therefore, the mind of the practitioner, Hoan Quan,
is a person who established a meditation center.
But from beginning to end, it has been the Six Harmonies,
it is very complete.  In the practice of
Buddhism,
for Buddhists, the prescribed path
is complete, but whether a person
can achieve complete practice depends on each
individual. However, the general standard
we have set is already good, is
n't it, dear fellow practitioners? Therefore, in
other places, when people
participate in meditation and contemplation, they
don't have this kind of silence. There's
no silence. For example, if it's
a little past the scheduled time, they start making
noise and commotion. Even
within the community, we don't feel at
peace. That is, we can't
understand the meaning of patience, or
we don't have time to look into
our own minds because we're always making noise and commotion.
But here, the
whole community is calm and quiet. If people can look into their
minds, they can purify their
minds, and they will
progress, right? That is, they only have one practice: the
King of Words. For example, "
This time," "That time," "Changing this time," "Changing that time,"
they themselves... If they...
If people haven't yet achieved inner peace, they will settle their
minds instead of making a fuss and
asking, "Why, why is it that the general
public is so peaceful?" It's the same
in family life; when
something unexpected happens, we have a habit of
analyzing it instead of making a fuss or causing
chaos, right?
Or in life, when
we encounter a crisis, we remain
calm, we
think, we observe, we analyze, and then
we handle it instead of making a
fuss and
blaming others. That's how
we resolve the issue. This
is the result of cultivating inner peace, my dear
friends. Cultivating inner peace is thanks to Right View, which allows the mind to control its contemplation. It's very
joyful, my dear
friends. And today, there was a karmic connection:
in the temple, there was a
wet spot, and a fellow practitioner wearing
socks kept avoiding
that wet spot. With inner contemplation, he told me to step
in. Here, the mind controls its contemplation.  Let me tell you all
this:
When I went on a charity trip to Hue that year,
the water was so deep it reached up here.
After the water receded, I went there, and when I got there,
the water was up to this level, so I
rolled up my pants. Then,
two or three of my fellow Buddhist devotees
went on the charity trip, and I
saw them trying to
get through. I said, "Hey ladies,
this road is so muddy, you can't
see any broken glass or anything!" I didn't
know why they suddenly saw this and took off their sandals. So, are you
buying sandals to wear to protect your
feet, or are you buying them to keep? That means
these sandals are simply an
object to protect your feet. We
have to understand their function, whether
they cost 5,000, 10,000 VND,
1 million, or even hundreds of millions of VND –
their purpose is to protect our
feet. So now, you see, "These sandals... They're
beautiful, aren't they?" "My sandals..."
These socks are dirty, and yet you ladies put them away. What
if a piece of glass
cuts your foot later? What would you do then? Then you
ladies said, "Oh, you can't even think of
that?" I secretly scoffed. C said, "It's not
because of what we think."
It means that we don't observe reality daily; we
live detached from reality,
right? We don't think, we
don't live in the present,
so whenever there's a present moment,
we're detached from
it. For example, let's say we're all
here to offer prayers at the summer retreat,
but time changes.
If we could live in the present,
we could calmly wait, right?
Because time isn't
our control. We have to accept things as they
are. If we
lived in the present, we would be very
peaceful. But if we couldn't live
in the present, our minds would be in a state of peace,
not knowing where to go. We wouldn't know what to do.
Not knowing when or why
means we can't live
in the present. When we can't live
in the present, we don't know the
present, and not knowing the present means
we are blind to the present. Those who are
blind to the present
will suffer; we won't be able to handle
anything, right? So, the important thing
is that we must live in the
present. To achieve that,
we must practice a lot, listen to Dharma teachings,
illuminate our inner selves, purify our
minds, abandon unwholesome thoughts, and
cultivate wholesome thoughts. Then,
wisdom will naturally arise. Is
n't that beneficial? That's
why people say that wealth cannot
surpass meditation, oil cannot surpass
meditation. People need the meditative quality to
observe, to
think, to do anything.
Therefore, the material of meditation is very
important, and we practice observing the
mind. That is one of the four foundations of mindfulness: body, feelings,
mind, and phenomena. And when we cultivate the mind,
we will cultivate the body, we will cultivate
feelings, and we will...  The practice of mindfulness is like this: For
example, the mind. Just like the story of the miserly old man who
kept his sandals, we practice
mindfulness. We must practice mindfulness. If we can't practice mindfulness,
then we can't. If we
can't practice mindfulness, then what is that called? Being
detached from reality. And the important thing
is attachment to possessions. The greedy mind can't be freed from
us, can it? Even when we've used up
our sandals,
we still begrudge them to our parents. We begrudge giving them away
because the greed is in
our hearts, so we are
unconditionally greedy. Isn't that right, great master?
We are unconditionally greedy, without any conditions. This is simply our
attachment to possessions, to
the point where we can't even
give them away to ourselves. Right? The sandals are meant
to serve us, but instead they
protect us, and we
can't even give them away to ourselves. We
still hoard those possessions. Isn't that similar to
the story of the miserly old man who keeps haggling, saying, "Give me your money, please
save me!"  "Oh well, later on,
he won't be able to wear a shirt anymore, oh well, he'll die looking around,
and there won't be any money left. That's
why it's the same in every field, in
business or in all
important areas, we must know that in
the present moment, we can escape greed,
we know how to handle things, what to do, and what to
do. For example, a family consists of
parents, spouse, and children.
If people can observe,
they should know how to
serve and support their
parents-in-law, how to support
their own family.
But because they are too greedy, too stingy,
they cannot support their
parents, so naturally, there is no
affection, and that affection is
the environment of our lives. Hey, Tâm, I'm
telling you all this: When Tâm
got married, her mother-in-law was from the countryside, and
of course, the elders there
often travel. Besides,
the elders are old, how can they be
lucid? So Tâm, I'm
sitting here talking."  When talking to my mother-in-law, she just keeps
talking about one thing after another, and I just
sit there
talking to her. Then my husband
says, "She keeps talking about
one thing after another, she doesn't talk about anything else. She just jumps from one thing to another,
basically like that." I glare at him, and he has to stay
silent. A little later,
I say to my husband, "
Mom's old now, she's getting old. How would
she know? So if she talks about chickens, we talk about chickens; if she talks about ducks, we talk about ducks. Whatever she talks about, we talk about it. Isn't that a happy mother-in-law relationship? Isn't that right? Why
can't we keep talking
about anything? We just listen to what we don't know,
and if we know something, we talk about it. Isn't that fun?
So, if a person is greedy,
they only think about themselves.
They do what serves them, what makes them happy, and they do
n't do what doesn't make them happy. That's still greed,
that's selfishness.  Dear fellow practitioners, that's
why a greedy mind is a dead mind.
If we know how to live in
the present, we know what to do
appropriately, letting go of greed. The mind
says, "Filial piety brings wealth, unfilial piety brings
no wealth. Filial piety brings fame and
fortune, unfilial piety brings ruin and loss."
That's natural. Give one and you
get ten; give one to your parents and you get ten; make
one offering to the Three Jewels and you get a hundred or a
thousand. You don't lose anything. If
you hold onto the cup and then
steal from others, how can
you get anything else? Here, the
young people go with a restrained mind. In the temple,
Buddhists give you this and that. The path
of work... The Mind says that when you come
here and people give, you have to
give away everything else from that place.
If you keep everything to yourself,
no one will give you anything anymore. For example, if
you are blessed and someone gives you something,
you keep three parts. Now, if you have extra, you give it
away, and they give you
enough.  Three parts are given away, and then it
becomes five parts. It's like that, and so on. If we just
keep holding on, how can we get anything?
It's like a lake; it can
only hold this much. If we
keep holding on to it and don't let
other water in, it will only become a
stagnant pond, what good will that do? Therefore,
here, the Threefold Enlightenment says that greed is
inherent in us everywhere. Where there is greed, there
is regret. Where there is regret, there is stinginess and greed. We ca
n't dare to spend anything,
can we, dear fellow practitioners?
We must not waste even a single thing. But if we
need to spend 10,000, we must spend it all.
Therefore, here, the Heart of the Han Dynasty also
reminds you, dear fellow practitioners, that cultivation is beneficial, is
n't it? If we know how to behave
well, we will receive all good things
in life. In this life,
we won't suffer, there will be no
separation. We live with whoever we live with, and we will
live very normally. We
accept all kinds of difficult people, even those with extremely difficult
personalities. It's called
talking.  Chickens talk, ducks talk, and you're still being so picky?
What's with all this talk? I'm not going to take
my business here and tell it there. Just listen and
leave it at that. If something makes you better,
use it; if it doesn't,
crawl away. Is
n't that living in the present, esteemed friends? You
shouldn't take things from one place and talk
about them elsewhere. If it
wastes your time and doesn't bring you benefit, just let it go. Isn't that
living
with wisdom, esteemed friends? On
this matter, I'd like to
share this with you all so that we can all remember
that we will be at peace when we are not
selfish, when we are diligent, and when we
observe reality. That's very good, isn't it?
[Music]
K